# Software Architecture

| author       | created at | updated at | status   |
|:-------------|:-----------|------------|:---------|
| @gabor-boros | 2023-03-16 | -          | accepted |

## Abstract

This document describes the architecture the project will follow unless major
changes are required.

## Decision

The project will follow a mix of hexagonal and domain-driven architecture. The
goal of the architecture is to separate the business logic from the technical
details. The business logic will be implemented in the domain entities and
services, while the technical details will be implemented in the transports and
the repositories -- which will be split into multiple packages based on their
responsibilities.

As we don't want to blindly follow general architectural patterns, we will try
to keep the architecture as simple as possible, decoupled, easy to understand,
and easy to maintain, but we will also try to follow the best practices of the
chosen architectures.

The application structure will be split into multiple packages:

* `entity` -- The `entity` package will contain the immutable domain entities.
  The domain entities will be the core of the system.
* `model` -- The `model` package will contain the aggregate entities. The
  aggregate entities will be the main transfer objects across the system. The
  aggregate entities will be mutable and will contain the domain entities.
* `cache` -- The `cache` package will contain the interfaces for the caches
  and the implementations for the caches. The caches will be used to store
  aggregate entities in memory.
* `database` -- The `database` package will contain the interfaces for the
  databases and the implementations for the databases. The databases will be
  used to persist and retrieve aggregate entities in the database.
* `service` -- The `service` package will contain the interfaces for the
  services and the implementations for the services. The services will be
  used to perform business logic on the aggregate entities.
* `transport` -- The `transport` package will contain the interfaces for the
  transports and the implementations for the transports. The transports will
  be used to transfer data between the system and the outside world.

Of course, other packages will be added, but the above packages will be the
core of the system.

## Consequences

The architecture will be easy to understand and maintain. The business logic
will be separated from the technical details. The system will be easy to
extend.

However, this pattern requires some additional work to do in the beginning.

## References

* [Hexagonal architecture](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hexagonal_architecture_(software))
* [Domain-driven design](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain-driven_design)
* [Reference implementation of DDD in Go](https://github.com/percybolmer/ddd-go)